[Music]
sometimes things don't go according to
plan
but every now and then it's for the
better from the microwave two icecream
cones
the accidental inventions on this list
completely changed our way of life are
you ready to be pleasantly surprised
then hit that thumbs up and let's jump
right in
matches in the early 1800s British
pharmacist John Walker would routinely
prepare medicines using wooden sticks to
mix the chemicals together one day he
noticed that one of the sticks had some
substance stuck to it when he tried to
scrape it off the stick caught fire and
that's how he came upon this brilliant
idea to make life easier in the world
with no electricity he started making
and selling these cardboard matches
which he later replaced with 3-inch
wooden sticks accompanied by a piece of
sandpaper to light them Walker humbly
decided not to patent his invention
because he believed it would be easier
for him to benefit humanity this way
matches soon became popular all over the
world and are still a useful commodity
today
[Music]
Teflon American scientist Roy J Plunkett
was doing research for the company
DuPont with a goal of finding a way to
make their fridges safer by replacing
the hazardous refrigerant freon with
something else he must have thought it
was another failed experiment when he
found that the gas mixture he had
created just vanished overnight and all
that was left of it in the container
with some white waxy substance that
strange substance proved to have some
useful qualities it was nonreactive
nonstick and resistant to extreme
temperatures from minus 100 degrees to
500 degrees Fahrenheit
in 1941 DuPont patented the invention
that we all know today as Teflon potato
chips New York chef George Crum
great name for a chef huh actually it'd
be better for a baker anyway chef Crum
got a lot of customer complaints that
his fries weren't crispy enough Crum a
bit annoyed decided to slice the
potatoes as thin as he possibly could
deep-fry them in boiling oil and slather
them and saw that oughta show up he
probably thought but to his surprise
people went crazy for the new recipe
potato chips have changed a lot since
1853 today they come in over 200
different flavors from the classic sour
cream and onion to some pretty bizarre
ones like wasabi ginger oh that sounds
good
[Music]
icecream cones
ice cream itself is nothing new the
Chinese ate something very similar to it
as early as 200 BC ice cream cones
however were the product of a happy
accident at the 1904 World's Fair in st.
Louis the ice cream booth had been so
rushed with customers that it ran out of
bowls
things weren't so busy in the next booth
over where Ernest Hamrlik was selling
Persian waffles in a kind gesture ham we
started rolling his waffles up into
cones and offered them to his neighbor
to use instead of bowls customers fell
in love with the final product and
that's how the ice cream cone was born
coca-cola John Pemberton wasn't a
business man he was just a pharmacist
trying to find a way to get rid of
headaches so he came up with a simple
recipe consisting of two ingredients
coca leaves and Kola nuts combined into
a syrup it went on the market in 1886
the syrup was supposed to be mixed with
water but the seller once mixed it with
soda by accident this is how the
delicious and refreshing drink we all
loved today was created post-it notes
dr. Spencer silver was working as a
chemist for 3m company back in 1968 he
was trying to create a super strong
adhesive but what he got instead was
quite the opposite a low tack yet high
quality adhesive only strong enough to
hold up a piece of paper but durable
enough to be relocated multiple times
without losing its stick it wasn't until
1974 when the use for his invention was
found his colleague needed something to
mark his hymnal in church choir and
sober sticky papers worked like a charm
the name post-it notes was later dug and
they became a must-have and home schools
and offices around the world safety
glass French chemist Edouard Benedictus
once accidentally knocked a beaker of
his desk to his surprise it didn't
shatter into pieces but just cracked
throughout he couldn't figure out why
until he noticed that the beaker had had
a thin film of liquid plastic in it left
over from a previous experiment and this
is how shatterproof glass was invented
[Music]
vulcanized rubber no it was not invented
by mr. Spock a young scientist named
Charles Goodyear was trying to improve
the quality of rubber which wasn't so
durable in the 19th century Goodyear was
experimenting and mixing raw resin with
salt pepper sugar sand castor oil and
even soup in an attempt to find the
perfect combination sounds like he was
really trying to invent lunch anyway one
day he decided to see what would happen
if he mixed the rubber with magnesia
lime and nitric acid again failure but
once the rubber was mixed with sulfur
and accidently dropped on a hot surface
it worked the scientists invented
vulcanized rubber that's now used to
produce just about everything from
basketballs to car tires plastic
before we had plastic there was shellac
it was used in the beginning of the 20th
century for all kinds of purposes from
wood varnishing to making records and
even dentures the problem was its price
it was super expensive to import beetles
from Southeast Asia for its production
so chemists Leo Hendrik baekeland tried
to find a cheaper alternative for
shellac during his experimentation he
happened to come up with something even
more useful the new mixture was a
moldable material able to resist
extremely high temperatures we all know
it as plastic antidepressants the first
antidepressant was discovered in 1957
and was supposed to be a cure for
tuberculosis its creators notice that
while not doing much to fix the disease
it did help lift the patient's mood and
we still use this medicine to treat the
symptoms of depression today
[Music]
implantable pacemaker Wilson Greatbatch
was trying to create a device that would
simply record the human heartbeat he
added the wrong electronic component by
mistake which made the product recreate
the heart's rhythm this pacemaker was
successfully implanted in the first
human in 1960 and has been saving lives
ever since
[Music]
antibiotics Scottish scientist Alexander
Fleming's laboratory was always a mess
beakers and papers all over the floor a
desk full of petri dishes with different
kinds of bacteria one day the scientists
found mold in one of the petri dishes
containing the staphylococci bacteria
the mold had formed a sterile shield
around itself killing the bacteria in
the dish Fleming
intrigued decided to further study the
properties of this fungus he received a
Nobel Prize for the discovery of
penicillin in 1945
[Music]
x-rays when Wilhelm roentgen
unintentionally put his hand in front of
an electron beam - back in 1895 it fell
off now oh not really
but he immediately saw an image of his
hand on a photographic plate he noticed
that the radiation passed through solid
objects and body parts leaving a shadow
the denser the object was the more
massive the shadow and now we have x-ray
imaging superglue in 1942 kodak
researcher harry Coover was working on a
transparent plastic for gun sights when
he accidentally created an extremely
adhesive substance that stuck to just
about anything while working on another
research project some time later the
adhesive again proved too sticky seeing
this as both a unique and useful
discovery in 1958 kodak patented this
super glue we all have a love-hate
relationship with today microwave oven
the next time you're heating up a meal
or some popcorn in a matter of seconds
don't forget to thank Percy Spencer
back in his day microwaves not the
kitchen appliance but the waves
themselves were used in radar but one
day Spencer a navy radar specialist
working for Raytheon was standing near a
microwave emitting magnetron and noticed
that the bar of chocolate in his pocket
had turned into a sticky mess and this
is how the microwave oven was invented
in 1945 so which of the stories do you
think is the coolest let us know in the
comments below if you found this video
useful give it a like and share it with
your friends subscribe to our channel so
you don't miss any of our great updates
coming soon and stay with us on the
bright side
[Music]
you